All right.
So before we close this lesson off, there is one more test that I'd like to add for our main nav.
I notice that we're not actually testing this VRF logic for our sub.
Now we conditionally render the sub nav based on the user being logged in.
That's very similar to how we conditionally render our profile image, but we're not testing that anywhere
in our code.
The reason we're getting perfect test coverage is in some of our tests.
This is an outing to true.
So the sub nav or at least its stub is being rendered.
So the testing tells us saying I am running through this code, I am running through line 43.
So I'm assuming that some code has run through it and nothing is broken.
So it's okay, but it doesn't necessarily mean that we have tested it, that we have asserted that something
exists or asserted that something is valid.
So we have no actual tests for this sub nav logic.
And I want to add that in this lesson, the test is going to be very similar to the one we have right
here for our user profile picture.
Right?
Because what we're doing is we're looking for the profile image and we're checking that it does not
exist when the component is first shallow mounted, then we are interacting with the component the way
that the user will, which is looking for the login button and triggering a click action on it or a
click event.
And after that click event completes, we are then verifying that a profile image exists.
Now again, just to reiterate and repeat myself ad nauseum, notice in this test that we don't know
the exact kind of component that a profile image is or the exact kind of component or element that a
login button is.
We're just looking for something that has those data test attributes, which allows this test to be
independent of the implementation and what we eventually choose to actually implement in the main NAV.
So we're going to follow a very similar approach for our new test.
So right here I'm going to create a new test.
It's still going to be within that top level.
Describe of when the user logs in because that is a good parent category to describe this test.
When the user logs in, we're going to display the user profile picture and what else are we going to
do?
We're going to write it displays sub nav with additional information.
Keep in mind here, I mentioned earlier that I think it's a good idea to write test descriptions that
are not specific to the implementation that actually describe the user value.
So when I'm using the word seven out here, I'm not literally saying a actual view sub nav component.
I'm using sub nav in the more general user sense of a sub navigation menu.
In fact, if we want to make this more explicit, let's actually write out displays sub navigation menu.
So there is no confusion there.
We are describing the value to the user.
All right.
So let's begin with our usual shallow mounting of our component.
So content wrapper equals shallow amount of our main NAV.
And we're again going to look for some kind of data test activity and I'm going to assign a value of
sub nav.
This does not exist anywhere in our component yet, but we're going to assume something will eventually
exist, right?
So we're kind of doing a half TDD half not to the approach yet because we do have our sub nav in here,
but we don't have any actual activity on it.
So I'm going to use my left keyword here because I am going to overwrite this later when I research
for the sub now.
So I'm going to say let's sub nav equals wrapper dot find.
We're going to look for something within our template.
And here I'm going to provide that square bracket syntax.
I want to look for an attribute called data test and specifically that attribute with a value of sub
nav.
All right.
And at this point, whatever we find should not exist.
So in other words, we should not find it, right?
So a little bit of a mind trip, but we should not have any element in our main NAV that has this attribute.
So the find a method will return an object that kind of represents nothingness.
And of course we can call the exists method on that object and it'll tell us a value of false if it
is not able to find anything that matches this description, which at this point it should not.
Okay, so how do we trigger the sub nav to exist?
We want the user to interact with our login button.
Well, we can actually copy the code that we have right here because it's going to be the exact same
action.
We're going to have the user click the login button.
So as a reminder here, we are finding some element with a data test, a login button and we are triggering
a click action, right?
So whatever we are clicking on must have that at click a handler, which as a reminder is a shortcut
for the VON Directive.
Now remember, we're using the a wait keyword here because we need to wait until this process is done
and until view re renders that component before we can check again for the now presence of a sub nav.
But if we're using the a wait keyword here, that means that the test is asynchronous.
So we have to add the async keyword right here.
Okay.
So at this point we have triggered a change in the component hopefully so we can research for the sub
nav.
So we're going to execute the exact same code we have right here in line 50.
I'm just going to copy this.
We do not need the LAT since we are just reassigning that somehow variable.
I'm now going to ask view test utils to perform another search.
Try again to find something with this data test attribute equal to sat nav.
And now I should expect that that sub nav exists.
Method should return.
True, because at that point the view test utils should be able to find that attribute.
All right.
So let me go ahead and run NPM, run, test, colon, watch to run just in watch mode.
And right now, our test is going to fail.
Because of course, we are not going to be able to find the data, test it.
Somehow notice here that we are failing on line number 57.
And the reason we're not failing on line number of 50 and 51 is at this point, we're validating that
view is not able to find an attribute with a data test of subset.
And that is indeed the case because we have not added that data test attribute yet anywhere.
So it's not found.
So it should properly not exist.
But where it is failing is where we expect it to fail, where we do expect it to exist after the user
clicks the button.
But it's nowhere to be found.
So of course, the simple solution to this is to add our data test attribute to our expected element
here.
It's going to be my sub nav view component.
So data test.
Equals sub nav.
Save that our tests should be run and we should get a passing suite and we do so just to very quickly
review what is happening when the component is mounted for the very first time, is logged in, is going
to be set to false, which means the sub nav will not render within the template, which means the date
of test attribute attached to that sub will not render either.
So view and view test utils will not be able to find it on lines 50 through 51.
Then we're going to click the log in button.
Once again, we're not going to manually change the data of the component.
We're going to interact with the component the way the user will by clicking the log in button that
will internally change some details about the component that we don't care about in the tests.
But that should trigger the state of the user being logged in, which should make the sub name appear
behind the scenes.
We know that we're going to trigger this method which is going to flip the value of the as logged in
data property to true that will force the template to render and now because is logged in is set to
true.
We will have a sub nav view component, which means we will have a data test attribute somewhere in
our template.
So the view test utils will be able to find it with the find method.
And then because it's a valid object rather than nothing, the exists method will return.
True.
Right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
I feel pretty good with our coverage for Main NAV and we can move on to the next section of the course.